# Language and cultural diversity
## Vocabulary and Useful Expression
* **overtake** *(v)*: to go past something by being a greater amount or degree
## Questions
### Why do people prefer to study English over other languages? 
I believe that the reason is mostly economic. English-speaking countries, for the most part, make up most of the richest countries in the world. As a result, many people want to learn English so that they can do business with companies in those rich countries. In addition, English has kind of been accepted as one of very few, if not the only, worldwide languages. People all over the world speak English. Therefore, people who want to participate in relationships that span the globe find that English is the most common language to do this.
### English is now used as an international language. What other languages do you think might develop into international languages? 
English is indeed used as an international language. The only other language I can see achieving this status is Chinese. The number of people who speak it is great, and the country is growing economically so quickly that I think more and more people worldwide are going to choose to learn it. The biggest barrier to this, however, is that Chinese is written in characters. It may be a pipe dream, but if Chinese changed to pinyin as the way to write and read. I think it would explode all over the world. I, speaking as someone trying to learn it, can testify as to how much easier that would make learning the language.
### Resides English, what other foreign languages do people study in China? 
In China, learning English reigns supreme. I imagine that it is by far the most popular language to learn in the country. No other language comes close, 1 think. If J had to choose some other languages for people to learn, 1 would guess that Japanese and Spanish would be the next two. Japanese is important because of the size of the Japanese economy. Spanish, because it is so similar to English, is fairly easy to learn, and because many people worldwide speak it.
### Compare the future popularity of Chinese and English as foreign languages to study. 
English became as popular as it is now because of the extreme wealth and worldwide influence of English-speaking countries (especially the US). People realized that one of the best ways to make money was to do business with Americans, and in order to do this, they had to leant English. I think that China is approaching this position now. Its economic influence is spreading extremely fast, and people across the world are realizing that learning Chinese is a great way to make money. As a result, in the future, 1 think Chinese will start approaching the popularity of English, though probably not ever overtaking it.
### Do you think studying foreign languages can benefit world peace? (How?) 
Yes, I do believe that if countries can speak to each other easily, tensions are much easier to get rid of. Just as important, however, is studying the culture of other countries. Understanding that other countries might act differently or take offense at different actions is a great way to create a more easygoing atmosphere. But yes, language is definitely the first step towards creating a more peaceful environment.
### What difficulties do you think international guests might have when they study Chinese? 
There are many answers to this question. First, reading feels like an impossible task. Forcing yourself to memorize characters rather than being able to read and figure out the meanings of words is a huge barrier. It is extremely intimidating to see the thousands of characters and realize you have to memorize most of them. Secondly, the tones are particularly difficult learning a language where the inflection can indicate what kind of attitude you have, and realizing that it isn’t just what you are saying but how you arc saying it that affects the meaning is really difficult. There are also many others, like learning neutral accents and proper pronunciation.
